# Predicting-NFL-Game-Outcomes

In this repository, I have included data, code, and the final paper describing our methodology used in my Sports Analytics (STOR538) group project to predict the outcomes (Result, Spread, Total) of 2020 NFL season games based on historical NFL data from 2000 to 2019. For the project, we were provided the season totals for every NFL team for each season since 2000 for a variety of offensive and defensive statistics. We also then imported several other useful statistics from offensive line statistics to conversion rates to more advanced efficiency metrics that provide insight into the performance of NFL teams. Once the data was cleaned, we sought to form three different predictive models predicting the Spread (margin between home and away score), Result (which team won the game), and Total (total # of points scored between the two teams) based on the most significant predictors from the subset each team's average performance across all of the different statistics included in our data. For each of the three outcomes, a range of model creation methods were considered from stepwise models to regularized models to more advanced machine learning methods. All of the models considered were fitted using a cross-validated approach. Once these models were created, they were used to predict the outcomes of several weeks of 2020 NFL games. Our performance on these predictions compared to the actual outcomes factored into our final grade on the project

I spent the most time on cleaning, scraping, and merging all the data together as well as developing the best model for the Spread variable. The repository includes a lengthy Rmd file with all the code used to the clean the data and a separate Rmd file with many of the models considered for the Spread variable. Our final paper on our methodology, which is also included in the repository, provides a thorough overview of the model creation process for each outcome variable. I also included the final, cleaned datatset used to either train or test the models consisting of each game from 2000 to 2019 and the average statistics for each team in the game.
